# CodeBook for getdata-project

This dataset originally came from the [UCI Human Activity Recognition dataset](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones).  It has been converted to a format more readily usable with R, per the course project requirements for _Getting and Cleaning Data_.  Four `RData` data frame files are available in [data-tidy](data-tidy):

## [activity-labels](data-tidy/activity-labels.Rdata)

This is a straight conversion of the `activity-labels.txt` file in the source dataset to a data frame, with no additional processing.  Columns include `id` for the integer level, and `activity` for the character label.

## [features](data-tidy/features.Rdata)

This is a conversion of the `features.txt` file in the source dataset, denormalized to include a few additional columns to make filtering and subsetting easier:

 * `id`, `int`: The level for the factor, from the source file.
 * `feature`, `factor`: The label for the factor, from the source file.  Ex: `tBodyAcc-mean()-X`
 * `axis`, `factor`: The axis for the sensor, as extracted from `feature`. Ex: `X`
 * `func`, `factor`: The function applied to the sensor, as extracted from `feature`.  Ex: `mean`
 * `signal`, `factor`: The sensor signal being measured, as extracted from `feature`.  Ex: `fBodyAcc`
 * `domain`, `factor`: Either "time" or "frequency", depending on the domain extracted from `feature`.
 * `col`, `chr`: For columns specified to be saved (relating to mean and standard deviation) this contains the name of the column in the tidied dataset, generated by concatenating `signal`, `func`, and `axis`.  For all others this is `NA`.  Ex: `tBodyAcc.mean.X`

## [tidy](data-tidy/tidy.Rdata)

This is the combined data from the `X`, `Y`, and `subject` files, including both testing and training data but only the specified (mean and standard deviation) columns.

Most of the columns in this dataset are extracted and unchanged datapoints with column names that follow the conventions specified above in the `features$col` column, with two additions:

 * `activity`, `factor`: Merged from `activityLabels$activity` above.
 * `subject`, `int`: The number of the participating subject.

## [summary](data-tidy/summary.Rdata)

This is the `tidy` dataset, aggregated by the `activity` and `subject` columns using the `mean` function.  It contains the same columns.